The paragraph summarization aims to omit the sentence that is considered less significance.
The sentence scoring is applied to decide the sentence deletion. The features that is use for the sentence scoring are:
1. The length of the sentence The candidate sentence that can go through this filter, is the one that the length is less than 80% of the longest sentence. Hence, the threshold for this filter is 80%*the maximum length of sentence in paragraph. The sentence that the length is less than 80% of the longest sentence, is considered contain more important meaning rather than the long sentence. The sentence that fulfill the threshold is given score one, otherwise it is just added by zero.

2.The alikeness of the sentence with the title Title of the section represent the main concept of the all section. Hence, all the sentence that contain the word of title definitely correlated with the title. The resemblance is measure by calculating the ratio between the number of the word of the title in the sentence and number of word in the title. The grater the score means the sentence is more crucial.

3.The position of the sentence Most of the time the main topic is located at the first or last sentence, so that the first sentence and last sentence get higher score than other sentence in other position. For example, there are five sentences in one paragraph, then the first and last sentence obtain 5 as its score. Moreover, the second sentence and the second from last get the score less than one of the score of the first sentence which is 4. Hence, the lowest score for this parameter is the sentence in the middle of the paragraph.

4.TF-IDF weight Each sentence in the section is treated like document, and all sentences in the paragraph is the whole collection. The TF-IDF score of each word in each sentence is calculated. The high TF-IDF means that word has a high term frequency (TF) in the sentence and low frequency in the whole paragraph. The score of each sentence is added by the TF-IDF score of each word of it. The TF-IDF scoring is similar with other TF-IDF scoring process. First of all, the all the stop words is removed from the sentence. Afterwards, the stemming process to get the root of each word in the sentence is done. Then the number of the appearance of the word in each sentence is computed for TF score, as well as the number of the sentence that contain the word is counted for the IDF score.
